Team Members:
Jakob Huffman

cfg_graph:

The Python script takes an LLVM file as input and creates a cfg 
for each function in the file. The program reads through the LLVM
instructions, separates functions into blocks, theh decieds the edges
between those blocks, and writes the result in Graphviz DOT format.

The main function gets the LLVM filename from the command line and opens
the file. The lines from the file are passed to get_func() to find each
function in the LLVM program.

For every function that is found, main calls get_blocks() to separate the
function into blocks and create a mapping between LLVM labels and
block numbers. It then calls get_edges() to determine how the blocks are
connected.

The blocks and edges are passed to make_dot_graph(), which creates the
Graphviz DOT output. Each function gets its own .dot file using the
function name.

get_func_name() this function gets the name of an LLVM function from its define
instruction. It finds the @ symbol and the opening parenthesis and returns
the text between them.

get_func() reads through all of the lines from the LLVM file and finds
each function definition. A function starts when a line begins with
define and contains an opening brace.

Comments beginning with a semicolon are removed, and empty lines are
ignored. Each function is stored with its name and its list of LLVM
instructions.

is_call_instruc() checks whether an LLVM instruction is a function call.
The function returns True if the instruction is a call and False if it is
not.

get_blocks() separates the instructions of a function into blocks.
if something like b1: is found, a new block is created and the 
label is mapped to that block number. If instructions appear before 
the first label, they are placed into an entry block.
The instructions are added to the current block until another label is
found. The function returns the list of blocks and the dictionary that maps 
LLVM labels to block numbers.

get_br_labels() checks a branch instruction and finds the destination
labels.The labels are kept in the same order that they appear in the branch.

get_edges() determines the directed edges between the basic blocks.
For each block, it looks at the last instruction. If the instruction is a
branch, get_br_labels() is used to find the destination labels. The label
dictionary from get_blocks() is then used to convert those LLVM labels
into block numbers. The first branch destination receives edge label 0, 
the second receives edge label 1, and so on.

If a block ends in a call instruction, the program creates an edge to the
next block to represent execution continuing after the call. A return instruction 
does not create an edge because execution of that function ends there.

escape_record_label() prepares LLVM instruction text so that it can be
placed inside a Graphviz label. 

make_block_label() creates the text that will be displayed inside a
node. It takes all of the LLVM instructions from one block, escapes them
using escape_record_label(), and joins them together using Graphviz line
breaks. This allows the graph to show the LLVM instructions inside each
node.

make_dot_graph() creates the final Graphviz DOT representation of the
control-flow graph it creates one Node for every basic block and gives each node a
record shape. The block instructions created by make_block_label() are
placed inside the node and it writes all of the directed edges found by get_edges(). Each edge
also contains its required edge number. The function surrounds everything with:
digraph {
    
}

References / Third-Party Assistance:

Python standard library documentation was used as a reference.
Deepseek was used to learn more about string parsing in python  
and dictionary manipulation 